# Bluemix Docker Image Resource

Build/push/pull docker image to IBM Cloud (Bluemix) Private Repository (https://console.bluemix.net/containers-kubernetes/registry/private)

Note: This is a fork/hack of the original Docker Image Resource. (https://github.com/concourse/docker-image-resource)

It is by no mean complete: 

* Testing removed (skiped)
* Serves single need

## Resource type
```
resource_types:
- name: bx-docker-image
  type: docker-image
  privileged: true
  source:
    repository: lorands/bx-docker-image-resource
```

## Source Configuration

* `repository`: *Required.* The name of the repository, e.g.
`concourse/docker-image-resource`.

  Note: When configuring a private registry, you must include the port
  (e.g. :443 or :5000) even though the docker CLI does not require it.

* `tag`: *Optional.* The tag to track. Defaults to `latest`.

* `username`: *Required.* The username to authenticate with when pushing.

* `password`: *Required.* The password to use when authenticating.

* `api_endpoint`: *Required.* The API endpoint to Bluemix.

* `bx_account`: *Required.* Account number in Bluemix.


```
  - name: bx-docker-image-sample
    type: bx-docker-image
    source:
      repository: registry.eu-de.bluemix.net/myns/sample
      username: ((cf-user))
      password: ((cf-pass))
      api_endpoint: https://api.eu-de.bluemix.net
      bx_account: XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX
```


## Behavior

### `check`: Check for new images.

The current image digest is fetched from the registry for the given tag of the
repository.


### `in`: Fetch the image from the registry.

Pulls down the repository image by the requested digest.

The following files will be placed in the destination:

* `/image`: If `save` is `true`, the `docker save`d image will be provided
  here.
* `/repository`: The name of the repository that was fetched.
* `/tag`: The tag of the repository that was fetched.
* `/image-id`: The fetched image ID.
* `/digest`: The fetched image digest.
* `/rootfs.tar`: If `rootfs` is `true`, the contents of the image will be
  provided here.
* `/metadata.json`: Collects custom metadata. Contains the container  `env` variables and running `user`.
* `/docker_inspect.json`: Output of the `docker inspect` on `image_id`. Useful if collecting `LABEL` [metadata](https://docs.docker.com/engine/userguide/labels-custom-metadata/) from your image.

#### Parameters

* `save`: *Optional.* Place a `docker save`d image in the destination.
* `rootfs`: *Optional.* Place a `.tar` file of the image in the destination.
* `skip_download`: *Optional.* Skip `docker pull` of image. Artifacts based
  on the image will not be present.

As with all concourse resources, to modify params of the implicit `get` step after each `put` step you may also set these parameters under a `put` `get_params`. For example:

```yaml
put: foo
params: {...}
get_params: {skip_download: true}
```

### `out`: Push an image, or build and push a `Dockerfile`.

Push a Docker image to the source's repository and tag. The resulting
version is the image's digest.

#### Parameters

* `additional_tags`: *Optional.* Path to a space separated list of tags. The
  Docker build will additionally be pushed with those tags.

* `build`: *Optional.* The path of a directory containing a `Dockerfile` to
  build.

* `build_args`: *Optional.* A map of Docker build-time variables. These will be
  available as environment variables during the Docker build, but will not
  persist in the intermediate or final images.

  Example:

  ```yaml
  build_args:
    DO_THING: true
    HOW_MANY_THINGS: 2
    EMAIL: me@yopmail.com
  ```

* `build_args_file`: *Optional.* Path to a JSON file containing Docker
  build-time variables.

  Example file contents:

  ```yaml
  { "EMAIL": "me@yopmail.com", "HOW_MANY_THINGS": 1, "DO_THING": false }
  ```

* `cache`: *Optional.* Default `false`. When the `build` parameter is set,
  first pull `image:tag` from the Docker registry (so as to use cached
  intermediate images when building). This will cause the resource to fail
  if it is set to `true` and the image does not exist yet.

* `cache_from`: *Optional.* An array of images to consider as cache, in order to
  reuse build steps from a previous build. The array elements are paths to
  directories generated by a `get` step with `save: true`. This has a similar
  aim of `cache`, but it loads the images from disk instead of pulling them
  from the network, so that Concourse resource caching can be used. It also
  allows more than one image to be specified, which is useful for multi-stage
  Dockerfiles. If you want to cache an image used in a `FROM` step, you should
  put it in `load_bases` instead.

* `cache_tag`: *Optional.* Default `tag`. The specific tag to pull before
  building when `cache` parameter is set. Instead of pulling the same tag
  that's going to be built, this allows picking a different tag like
  `latest` or the previous version. This will cause the resource to fail
  if it is set to a tag that does not exist yet.

* `dockerfile`: *Optional.* The path of the `Dockerfile` in the directory if
  it's not at the root of the directory.

* `import_file`: *Optional.* A path to a file to `docker import` and then push.

* `load`: *Optional.* The path of a directory containing an image that was
  fetched using this same resource type with `save: true`.

* `load_base`: *Optional.* A path to a directory containing an image to `docker
  load` before running `docker build`. The directory must have `image`,
  `image-id`, `repository`, and `tag` present, i.e. the tree produced by `/in`.

* `load_bases`: *Optional.* Same as `load_base`, but takes an array to load
  multiple images.

* `load_file`: *Optional.* A path to a file to `docker load` and then push.
  Requires `load_repository`.

* `load_repository`: *Optional.* The repository of the image loaded from `load_file`.

* `load_tag`: *Optional.* Default `latest`. The tag of image loaded from `load_file`

* `pull_repository`: *Optional.* **DEPRECATED. Use `get` and `load` instead.** A
  path to a repository to pull down, and then push to this resource.

* `pull_tag`: *Optional.*  **DEPRECATED. Use `get` and `load` instead.** Default
  `latest`. The tag of the repository to pull down via `pull_repository`.

* `tag`: **DEPRECATED - Use `tag_file` instead**
* `tag_file`: *Optional.* The value should be a path to a file containing the name
  of the tag.

* `tag_as_latest`: *Optional.*  Default `false`. If true, the pushed image will
  be tagged as `latest` in addition to whatever other tag was specified.

* `tag_prefix`: *Optional.* If specified, the tag read from the file will be
  prepended with this string. This is useful for adding `v` in front of version
  numbers.

* `target_name`: *Optional.*  Specify the name of the target build stage. 
  Only supported for multi-stage Docker builds


